**********
Webservice
**********

**New webservice** from 14 June 2018: the queries slightly changed, have been
largely extended. See the examples below.

One instance of the pypath webservice runs at the domain
http://omnipathdb.org/, serving not only the OmniPath data but other datasets:
TF-target interactions from TF Regulons, a large collection additional
enzyme-substrate interactions, and literature curated miRNA-mRNA interacions
combined from 4 databases. The webservice implements a very simple REST style
API, you can make requests by HTTP protocol (browser, wget, curl or whatever).

The webservice currently recognizes 3 types of queries: ``interactions``,
``ptms`` and ``info``. The query types ``resources``, ``network`` and
``about`` have not been implemented yet in the new webservice.


Mouse and rat
-------------

Except the miRNA interactions all interactions are available for human, mouse
and rat. The rodent data has been translated from human using the NCBI
Homologene database. Many human proteins have no known homolog in rodents
hence rodent datasets are smaller than their human counterparts. Note, if you
work with mouse omics data you might do better to translate your dataset to
human (for example using the ``pypath.homology`` module) and use human
interaction data.


Examples
--------

A request without any parameter, gives some basic numbers about the actual
loaded dataset:

    http://omnipathdb.org

The ``info`` returns a HTML page with comprehensive information about the
resources:

    http://omnipathdb.org/info

The ``interactions`` query accepts some parameters and returns interactions in
tabular format. This example returns all interactions of EGFR (P00533), with
sources and references listed.

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?partners=P00533&fields=sources,references

By default only the OmniPath dataset used, to query the TF Regulons or add the
extra enzyme-substrate interactions you need to set additional parameters. For
example to query the transcriptional regulators of EGFR:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?targets=EGFR&types=TF

The TF Regulons database assigns confidence levels to the interactions. You
might want to select only the highest confidence, *A* category:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?targets=EGFR&types=TF&tfregulons_levels=A

Show the transcriptional targets of Smad2 homology translated to rat including
the confidence levels from TF Regulons:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?genesymbols=1&fields=type,ncbi_tax_id,tfregulons_level&organisms=10116&sources=Smad2&types=TF

Query interactions from PhosphoNetworks which is part of the *kinaseextra*
dataset:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?genesymbols=1&fields=sources&databases=PhosphoNetworks&datasets=kinaseextra

Get the interactions from Signor, SPIKE and SignaLink3:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?genesymbols=1&fields=sources,references&databases=Signor,SPIKE,SignaLink3

All interactions of MAP1LC3B:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?genesymbols=1&partners=MAP1LC3B

By default ``partners`` queries the interaction where either the source or the
arget is among the partners. If you set the ``source_target`` parameter to
``AND`` both the source and the target must be in the queried set:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?genesymbols=1&fields=sources,references&sources=ATG3,ATG7,ATG4B,SQSTM1&targets=MAP1LC3B,MAP1LC3A,MAP1LC3C,Q9H0R8,GABARAP,GABARAPL2&source_target=AND

As you see above you can use UniProt IDs and Gene Symbols in the queries and
also mix them. Get the miRNA regulating NOTCH1:

    http://omnipathdb.org/interactions/?genesymbols=1&fields=sources,references&datasets=mirnatarget&targets=NOTCH1

Note: with the exception of mandatory fields and genesymbols, the columns
appear exactly in the order you provided in your query.

Another query type available is ``ptms`` which provides enzyme-substrate
interactions. It is very similar to the ``interactions``:

    http://omnipathdb.org/ptms?genesymbols=1&fields=sources,references,isoforms&enzymes=FYN

Is there any ubiquitination reaction?

    http://omnipathdb.org/ptms?genesymbols=1&fields=sources,references&types=ubiquitination

And acetylation in mouse?

    http://omnipathdb.org/ptms?genesymbols=1&fields=sources,references&types=acetylation&organisms=10090

Rat interactions, both directly from rat and homology translated from human,
from the PhosphoSite database:

    http://omnipathdb.org/ptms?genesymbols=1&fields=sources,references&organisms=10116&databases=PhosphoSite,PhosphoSite_noref
